So that's a little bit of
advice around design systems.
I do wanna just briefly,
as we come to the end here,
talk about implementing and
evolving your design system over time.
The one thing I would suggest is,
I wanted to say a bit about turning
components into code, right?
A lot of organizations will do one or
the other, right?
Either you'll have developers who
have all been all proactive, and
they've created a design system
with components in their code.
Or you have a design team that have
built a design system in Figma to
make their lives easier.
Or, oftentimes as well,
both have done that, but
neither have talked to one another, and
so it's two completely different systems.
The real power of design systems is
where you have a one-to-one match,
a component in Figma with
associated code with it, right?
So a developer can look at Figma and
go, that's a so-and-so component,
let's grab the code for
that and whack it in.
That's where you get the real benefits.
So having a repository
that links those two so
you can see how the two work
together is really helpful.
Now, there are no shortage of
options available to you here.
The one that I use is
one called ZeroHeight,
which allows you to link your design
components to your code base.
That's my personal preference.
However, I noticed Steven in one of his,
yeah, it's Steven,
in one of his talks uses Storybook,
which I'd never heard of, right?
So you might wanna take a look at that
as well, as Steve teaches you how
to use Storybook, while I've taught you
nothing about how to use ZeroHeight.
So you might wanna go with his option.
But these are really powerful and
absolutely essential.
The other thing I would say is,
your design system's never done, right?
So don't think of it as a static document,
but think of it as a living,
breathing thing that
will evolve over time.
For a start,
you'll get user feedback, right?
User feedback every now and
again will highlight improvements
to your design system or
something gets revealed in in some
usability testing or something like that.
And you will need to do a second or
third version of a design
component to get it right.
Also then of course, organizations love
to change their brand every 30 seconds.
So every time they do that, we've gotta
update all of our components to fix that.
However, most brand
updates in my experience,
consist of changing the colors, changing
the logo, and maybe changing some styling,
like drop shadows and rounded corners.
Well, we've set all of those things.
Your logo will be a component, right?
So that means you can just go in and
replace it, and
it'll ripple through the whole lot,
everywhere.
The colors are set as variables, so
you can replace it in the variables and
it'll ripple through everywhere.
And the rounded corners and the shadows
are all set as styles, so again,
it'll ripple through everywhere.
So actually rebranding an entire site
becomes quite straightforward if it's
built with the design system in place.
But then, of course,
there'll be new features and
functionalities that you'll
wanna add as an organization.
So how do we go about adding
these new components?
We can't let it be wild west,
that anybody can just go along and
create a new component.
Otherwise you'll have more and
more components being added and
nobody will be looking after them and
it'll be a nightmare.
So I'm in a little bit of a process for
adding your new components is worthwhile.
Little bit upfront research before you
agree to a new component is great.
Doesn't need to be much, you just
need to ask a series of questions.
Can we use an existing component, right?
It's amazing how often people wanna
jump in and create a new component
when actually, all you need to do is
restyle an existing component, right?
So oftentimes, you can actually
just reuse an existing one but
add a layer of styling over the top of it.
Other times it's,
can we revise an existing component?
So could we change this component
to meet this new need and
then roll it out to every other
occurrence of that component as well.
And the other one that you need to ask is,
if you've got people spread across
the organization is, is anyone working
on anything like this at the moment?
[LAUGH] Cuz the number of times you've
got two designers working on the same
component in different places and
nobody's talked to one another,
I cannot express it.
So just ask that question.
Then it's a matter of
designing your new component,
if there is a need for a one,
iterating it, testing it.
Then it's handed across to development,
who code it up.
You wanna document it, get it into
your ZeroHeight or Storybook system.
And then just Make sure everybody
that is aware of this component,
has a chance to review it and
to approve it, just to have a little
bit of structure in place for
ensuring that it's not a wild west.
Talking about version control,
we were talking about verse earlier and
you were asking about naming
conventions and stuff like that.
A little bit of vice around that, having a
clear versioning strategy, fairly obvious,
establish a clear and consistent
approach for how you're gonna do it.
Make sure you document any changes
that you're making as you go.
I know it's boring writing documentation,
but it's so
helpful when you get turnover of staff.
And documentation should be more
than a comment in your code,
developers, looking at you.
[LAUGH] You should have
a rollout strategy, so
what's your process of
rolling out new ones?
And will they replace
the previous one universally?
How are you gonna deal with that?
A depreciation strategy
is worth having as well.
So basically,
if you're gonna retire a component,
what's it gonna be replaced with?
What's your timeline for doing that?
What's your alternative?
How are you gonna communicate that
with the rest of the organization?
And then, access to previous
versions is quite important.
You might think you'll never
need it again, you will.
So make sure it's available somewhere,
archived away.
Adoption and communication is quite
key when it comes to design systems.
So you gotta sell your design system,
cuz you create this design system,
if nobody uses it,
you've wasted your time.
So you wanna be communicating
the value of it, you wanna give people
a sense of ownership and
the ability to influence its direction.
There's nothing worse, designers, and
I think developers in my experience,
but designers definitely,
they will rebel majorly if you force
the design system on them, right?
They throw a tantrum,
there's tears and it's horrible.
So got to bring them along with you,
right?
Get them involved in the creation process.
It's great to have champions,
some people that are gonna really champion
the design system and advocate for it.
And you also wanna consider training and
support, especially if you use
outside agencies and you need them
to work with your design system.
So think about that and
how you're gonna do that.